getting online help.
Now,
this is the most powerful tool that you have that you could utilized while you are writing
a script or you need help writing A Well,
let me tell you this not everybody is perfect.
What?
Their expertise that people always learn.
Always learn.
And you're not gonna find anybody in the world who would say I got it all.
I know,
Matt,
I know everything about Matt.
I know biology.
I know everything about biology.
So what I'm trying to say is everybody Even if you become expert,
you will still learn newer things.
So people who are very proficient and export in writing scripts,
they still need help.
They sometimes get help online so they actually go help other people and also get help
online.
So if you're writing a script to date,
So let's pick an example.
Let's say if you want to write a script today and you need some kind off,
um,
syntax in your script and something is not working for you,
you know,
don't waste time.
Go online,
ask question.
It's OK.
We don't know everything inside on our head.
Sometimes you do forget.
So that's what this lesson is about is getting your online help You should use all online.
Resource is what I mean is,
if you'd writing a script and you need help,
go online and use online.
Resource is like Google,
Yahoo,
bang,
search or whatever.
The search engine off your choice.
People actually even start writing questions nowadays with websites like Facebook,
our Cora or there.
So many other websites.
You actually go and pace your questions.
And you know what happened?
Within few hours,
your questions is answered.
Now,
how people are answering your questions when they don't have interest in spending time for
you.
Well,
first thing is,
people,
most of the people are nice enough to help other people out.
That's one of the reason they actually help.
Plus,
if you help someone,
you are not actually making a difference or actually doing a favor to them.
You actually improving your own skills.
So that's why go online.
Try out all the resource is that are out there.
Second,
when you search online,
try to make precise search meaning don't just have ah,
vague search like linen shell scripting.
Well,
you're gonna get thousands off search results,
but if you're looking for Lennox.
If else statement,
you will get exactly if else statement.
But if you're looking for Pacific error that you get from l f l statement,
you will get that to Pacific.
So be precise,
then.
Next one is second opinion.
What I mean is,
if you find a search,
a new article on a website that someone has offered that you should do the script this way
,
then just don't be done with it and is like,
Hey,
I found my search.
I'm just copy and pasting even you understand?
No.
Go ahead and look for another such.
Maybe you'll find a better search an easier one that you will make you understand what this
is about and how the scripting works.
Then ask questions what I meant.
What I mean by ask question is,
if you are trying to look for something and that is not already answered by the community,
then you could post your question online.
If you're writing a script to actually delete,
um,
certain servers or toe wipe out or do past management on your system and you want to delete
those patches that are no longer used by users,
so and you need help.
Go put that question online.
And I tell you this people will answer.
People will reply back to your question with the right script.
So this way you will learn as well then at the end,
create your documentation when you write whenever you.
Sorry.
Whenever you get something from someone,
write it down on the documentation.
That's one of the things I always do.
I write it down because a year to year,
five years from now,
I will forget.
So I write down the dot on the documentation.
And once you become yourself and export a profession,
please go and help others.
Don't forget but you that you were helped once and people help you.
So now when you become good at something,
go and help out others.
Now it's your turn to return the favor,
right?
Okay,
So this is all about how you get online help.
Now let me go and open up my browser and I'll show you exactly what kind of help that you
could get if you are trying to run or write a scrip.
So I have Let's go into my browser.
Um,
I have open up my browser.
I like Google,
so I picked again.
Don't go.
Bye bye.
My preference.
You could pick any search engine that you want.
So if you wanted to do,
let's say,
um exist.
Status.
Right.
Um,
you want to learn more about exist at how I said it works.
Then you could do,
um,
Lennox.
First of all,
you all the story of a linear because this operating system Lennox exit status in bash
because you're doing bash script and you're gonna find tons off article tons of information
about Lennox.
See,
how do you exit in a command line?
Understanding exit codes and how to use them in bash.
So before you could come in and ask me question?
Not that I'm not gonna answer.
I would love to,
but I would encourage you to go.
Fine.
Answer online yourself.
This will help you in your real life career wherever you're working.
So you see,
you have a lot of articles here.
People have put in articles about understanding exit codes how they work,
spend some time reading it,
and you see right here they have given also examples.
Touch cannot touch arrest test permission denied and and the echo and the exit status.
Zero file ran all the different commands.
All the testing for codes.
Look for it.
See right here.
If dollar question more equal zero than Echo successfully created while else could not
create a fall.
So this is right here.
They use this exit code right here.
So it's about exit coat.
And let's say if one of the one of the script that we written in our course was,
check up process and kill it.
So let's say if I wanted to actually do that exact same thing process in Lenox and killing
Simple is that check up process in the Nixon killing fine and killed process,
you see?
See how it easy It is,
ah,
guide to kill people and kill all commands to terminate a process.
And here you will have this website technical That explains you how you could find process
,
different commands to find process.
And what are the commands to kill the process.
If you want to do automate,
you could actually go and put your search precisely.
Check a process in Lenox and kill it,
and I'll put it a script to check and you'll find Shell script to capture process I d and
kill if it exists.
See,
you have to be Pacific.
What you're typing.
So click on it and you will find.
See right here.
People have written the script already for you,
so you don't have to actually spend time and troubleshoot your scripting code.
If it doesn't work,
you could try these out.
And basically,
I would encourage you to try every lesson that recovered in our,
um,
in our class.
Tried.
See people if see if people have script written in a different way.
See,
there people have answered.
People have questioned that I probably Randa's.
I tried this code and it is not working well,
you could also look for what is wrong with this code.
And then you will see answers right here.
It says this works good for me.
Perfect.
And then you try this.
This will make you rial real good in scripting.
Basically in anything that you wanted to do in life.
You wanted to you get answers and then eventually your answer people,
once you gain knowledge on that,
OK,
going back.
So let's say one of the,
um script.
Every road was,
um,
less unless all uses who are logged in.
So I'll do script to list all logged in he uses in Lenox.
Make sure because we need a script to list all logged in users invent and Lennox.
If you don't put Lennox that it probably give you the information in windows as well.
Because remember,
in Windows you also write script and those scripts are back scripting.
So you're not bash?
Um ah,
power shell script.
So every operating system has scripting,
um,
capability.
So make sure you type clinic.
So anyway,
your next links less current logged in user.
Let's see.
Bash list logged in users name Terminal four ways to identify who logged in and in your
Lennox So many things that you will find.
Okay,
so now that's a You wanted to get mawr,
um,
examples off four loops scripts you could do.
Um,
four Luke script examples since four.
Luke mostly is in shell scripting.
But I would say put in Lenox for love script example.
Letting bash for Luke.
Example.
See if you click on it,
you're gonna find so many examples right here.
These people have,
or you could try different examples.
So many of them see what people have to see what other issues they had.
Lenin Bashar script for bash for Luke.
See how to look through a list for number 123 do echo number two and exit.
So basically,
what I'm trying to say is I'm not gonna go into more detail about searching.
I think you understand now that what exactly I'm talking about so I'm saying is go ahead
and use your resource is don't limit yourself to ah book or to even my course or to a
person that you rely on.
This world is open for the whole war once this internet was introduced.
So you have a whole world on the palm off your hands on the lap,
which is your laptop.
So go ahead and open up your search engines and type of anything you want and you'll find
tons of resource is out there.
So that's why my focus is even if you are in Windows or in Lennox or in any kind of
capacity utilizing utilize the search engines,
see how you could use the search engines.
And this way you don't have to rely on anybody else to try it out.
Different searches,
and I'm sure you will find the answers that you look and once again,
good luck